# Graph Neural Network models to predict redox potentials, and Iron(II) complexes redox dataset

## Data file description

- `desolvated_all_tmcs.xyz` file contains the xyz structures of the desolvated iron complexes
- `desolvated_tmqm_all_xyz.pkl` file is pickle file for pandas dataframe containing the csd_codes, ASE atoms objects for the desolvated iron complexes, and ASE atoms objects for the tmQM iron complexes
- `tmc_frm_xyz2mol_desolvated_all_df.pkl` file is pickle file for pandas dataframe containing the csd_codes, smiles, ase atoms, and rdkit mol objects (using the modified xyz2mol method) for the desolvated iron complexes
- `tmc_frm_xyz2mol_tmqm_all_df.pkl` file is pickle file for pandas dataframe containing the csd_codes, smiles, ase atoms, and rdkit mol objects (using the modified xyz2mol method) for the tmQM iron complexes. Note, this file is not provided and will have to be generated by running the `script_xyz2mol.py` file

## Steps to run the codes

To run the codes here, first clone the repository and cd inside the repo dir.

Next, create a Python virtual environment or a new Conda environment. Then install the Python packages as shown below.

**Python version used**: Python 3.11.9 

If you are using Conda:

```
# Note, exporting the PYTHONNOUSERSITE variable is required if you are on an HPC or ALCF Polaris or Sophia
# Setting the PYTHONNOUSERSITE variable ensures that your new conda environment will not see any HPC conda environment (if there are any)
export PYTHONNOUSERSITE=1
conda create -p ./conenv python=3.11.9
```

Package installation (same for both virtual environment or Conda environment):

```
pip install -r requirements.txt

# torch packages cannot be installed through a requirements file, so they have to be installed manually
pip install torch==2.6.0+cu124 torchvision==0.21.0+cu124 torchaudio==2.6.0+cu124 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu124
pip install torch-geometric==2.6.1
pip install pyg_lib torch_scatter torch_sparse torch_cluster -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-2.6.0+cu124.html
```

Since most of the codes here are in a Jupyter notebook, you have to setup a Jupyter kernel. 

First activate your new environment. If it is virtual environment, source it using `source path/to/your/venv/bin/activate`

If it is a Conda environement, use `conda activate path/to/your/conda_env`

```
python -m ipykernel install --user --name=customname --display-name aBeautifulName
```


**Data files generation**

- Run the `script_combine_desolv_tmqm_xyz.py` file to generate the `./Data/desolvated_tmqm_all_xyz.pkl` file. The generated file is provided in the `Data` folder if you want to skip this step. However, you will need to setup the exact Python environment described above to load the .pkl file
- Run the `script_xyz2mol_desolvated.py` file to generate the `.Data/tmc_frm_xyz2mol_desolvated_all_df.pkl` file. The file is provided in the `Data` folder so this step can also be skipped if wanted. Note, you will need to clone the [tmQM repository](https://github.com/uiocompcat/tmQM) and set the path to the repo like so `TMQM_REPO_PATH = './tmQm/tmQM'`. Further, you will need to install and setup xtbpaths in the script
- Run the `script_xyz2mol.py` file to generate the `./Data/tmc_frm_xyz2mol_tmqm_all_df.pkl` file. This step cannot be skipped. Note, you will need to clone the [tmQM repository](https://github.com/uiocompcat/tmQM) and set the path to the repo like so `TMQM_REPO_PATH = './tmQm/tmQM'`

## Model Training

Once all the data files are generated in the `./Data` folder, you can run the jupyter notebooks for data analysis and the notebooks in the `Model_training` folder to train the models

## Authors
 - Fakhrul Hassan Bhuiyan [@fbhuiyan2](https://github.com/fbhuiyan2)
 - Alvaro Vazquez Mayagoitia [@alvarovm](https://github.com/alvarovm) alvaro::at:anl.gov

Copyright(c). Argonne UChicago, LLC. 2025.

## Aknowledgements
This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of
Science Energy Earthshot Initiative as part of the Center for Steel Electrification by Elec-
trosynthesis (C-STEEL) at Argonne National Laboratory under Contract Number DE-AC02-
06CH11357. We acknowledge the computing resources provided on ‘Improv’ computing
clusters operated by the Laboratory Computing Resource Center at Argonne National Lab-
oratory. This research used resources of the Argonne Leadership Computing Facility, which
is a U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science User Facility operated under contract
DE-AC02- 06CH11357. A.V.M. and F.H.B. were supported by the Office of Science, U.S.
Department of Energy, under contract DE-AC02-06CH11357.

